I think it's easy for people to mistake
my message about street activism as
somehow cynical and pessimistic it's not
at all
I'm really very optimistic about the
political difference people can make
just not on the street
so the man you see next to me here is
George Mumbai Oh George mam bo is more
powerful than say an elected backbencher
in Parliament he's more powerful than
most mayors of city governments he's not
more powerful than a prime minister or
president of a country but nevertheless
this is a guy with the ability to get a
meeting get an interview with almost
anyone in government not just in England
but probably throughout Europe this is
someone who can get research funding for
any research project he could possibly
want to undertake this is someone who
has published numerous books I think he
basically publishes a newspaper article
on a major newspaper once a week every
week but anyway as often as he pleases
he appears on the radio and television
at his command he is one of the most
powerful and influential people in
Europe period and has been for more than
a decade okay his name carries a lot of
weight his ability to you know do public
outreach and educate the public his
ability to do outreach to elite levels
of government and educate inform those
people his ability to to really change
the world is tremendous and yet here he
is getting himself arrested on the
street for very little possible positive
outcome now you know you could say in
some sense a guy like this is sort of in
denial about his own elite status you
could also say that this is just a
cynical ploy for yet more public
attention and popularity maybe he's
gonna stand for election in future maybe
he's stoking up you know uh the support
from the left-wing radical side of the
political spectrum even that's a little
bit counterproductive because the the
votes you've really got a court or
exactly the more conservative elderly
people you're going to get the radicals
voting for you anyway George
but um you know to some extent there's
just chasing Fame and and yet more
public influence but even when you look
at the more sort of pitiable downtrodden
protesters here look at this young man
jumping on top of a streetcar sorry
sorry it's a subway some kind of public
transport but you know paradoxically
what you need for the sake of the
environment is more public transport
more subways more streetcars you know
fewer individually owned automobiles but
for whatever reason they protested on
behalf the environment by stopping the
subway service and as you can see two
different young men tried to do this and
they were pulled down and apparently
beaten up by the crowd to some extent
these two young men who are in British
parlance poncey gets I mean I'm sorry
dressed up the way they are I am sure
the crowd regarded these as poncey over
educated underemployed young men like
myself by the way much like myself
except I'm not young anymore um you know
there's always a certain class character
to these things in British culture is
the resentment of the working class
against even the middle class let alone
the upper class you know there's a sense
that these people need to get home from
work and how dare you you know there's a
lot going on here but these these young
men who got dressed up in a suit and tie
to get beat up and probably arrested
that we've got all dressed up to go to
jail if you really think they have no
way to positively influence the
government in a democratic society
you're wrong
if you think they have no way to either
you know influence public opinion you
know the purely democratic side of
politics like Socrates they have no
ability to reach out to change their
world that way or if you think they have
no ability to reach upward to government
and government funding event and
research funding if you think they have
no way to make the world a better place
in a more hierarchical and non-ag a
latarian way you're wrong - I'm
tremendously optimistic with those
things even in a sort of semi democratic
society like England England's political
system is not as good as
you know Switzerland but nevertheless
it's open to exactly these kinds of
voices highly motivated idealistic voice
and want to make the world a better
place getting research funding you know
setting up charitable organizations that
very often do get governments as well as
charitable donations to pursue their
their goals and you know kind of the
most meager form of activism you can
imagine will still be more effective
than getting beat up pulled off the top
of a train and put in prison whether
it's these guys or it's the other guys
who locks themselves to a car and got
hauled off by the cops or is George
George wrong Bo lying on the street and
getting hauled off to prison if you set
up a vegan pancakes stand you know on
the sidewalk legally you got the permits
and you start selling pancakes maybe you
can sell vegan t-shirts also you know as
humble as that may be it's still more
effective than what you're doing with
this kind of street activism getting
yourself in jail and so on so really
think about that
who is the optimist here and who is the
pessimist I mean the other thing I'm
optimistic about is exactly the humbling
nature of that kind of outreach that
kind of real participatory political
process going to City Hall and trying to
explain to them how they could make
better use of solar power and wind power
it's humbling you know and being on the
sidewalk selling pancakes at a pancake
restaurant you know setting up a
business like that and reaching out to
people saying hey these pancakes are
vegan here are the impacts of veganism
maybe they get a pamphlet with their
pancakes or something you know you do
some kind of educational thing with
uh-hum it's humbling and you see the
face to face reality and if you go to
City Hall you present those ideas it's
not like standing on a street corner
shouting and preaching that you have the
answer and you don't have to answer
anybody's questions that the answer is
just solar power and wind power well
know if you actually have to make your
case if you have to do the math if you
have to show just how much money it's
gonna cost just what the input and
output them through what it's gonna be
in how much land that's gonna occupy and
what are really the advantages when you
do the math
shutting down a coal power plant
shutting down a gas power plant and
replacing it with solar and wind when
you start to work that through it's
humbling and educational for you as the
activists and it's humbling and
educational for everyone else
participating in the process right
that's the ultimate reason why I
disagree with this kind of phony
radicals okay it's really sad
street radicalism it gives people this
misconception that activism on the
street is the realest form of political
participation
whereas what goes on in Parliament what
goes on in the mayor's office is somehow
phony and the reality is 180 degrees
opposite the reality is the other way
around right we have to have an
appreciation for what's real and what's
fake we have to regard weakness as
weakness and strength as strength and
this kind of phony radicalism it trains
people instead to regard weakness this
strength I mean people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know